# Sentianalysis
"Bertha is not my name": Comparative Sentiment Study in Wide Sargasso Sea and Jane Eyre¶
“Bertha is not my name. You are trying to make me into someone else, calling me by another name.”(Rhys, 1974)-– More than 100 years after the publication of Charlotte Brontë's celebrated novel Jane Eyre, Dominican-British author Jean Rhys wrote Wide Sargasso Sea. In this work, she liberates Bertha Mason, the “madwoman” confined to the attic, allowing her to reclaim her true name Antoinette, and to tell her own story in her own voice. While countless readers worldwide find an attachment with Jane Eyre, few may muster much empathy for the "madwoman”. Rhys, however, drawing upon her extensive research, deep understanding of the historical context (specifically, British colonization of the Western Hemisphere in the 19th century,) and her profound empathy for this character, recounted the story before Bertha descends into madness. As Gilbert and Gubar famously asserted in their ground-breaking literary criticism The Madwoman in the Attic,(2000) “…the madwoman in literature by women is not merely, as she might be in male literature, an antagonist or foil to the heroine. Rather, she is usually in some sense the author’s double, an image of her own anxiety and rage.” (p.78) Thus, do Bertha and Jane Eyre, the madwoman and the heroine, two seemingly disparate characters, also serve as both a foil and a mirror to each other? Can the sentiment trend reflect the different portrayals of characters and themes?

